Let's talk a little bit about a specific
niche of businesses, and those
are ones that have a physical location
like Frontend Masters does, right?
Frontend Masters is interesting in
that it has a physical location for
in person workshops, right?
But they also target customers who
are interested in buying up membership for
video courses globally.
So, when you have a physical location and
can take advantage of that, you want
to make sure that first and foremost you
complete your Google My Business page.
And they'll actually mail you a postcard
with a code on it that
you have to type in.
That's their way of verifying that
you actually are at that address and
that it is factual information there.
What you're doing is you're establishing
your presence in Google's Knowledge Graph.
So if you ever searched for a business
name or potentially like a movie, and
you see that rich tile show up on
the right side of search results,
that's a Knowledge Graph tile.
And that's not relevant information,
that is factual,
verified information about that entity.
And so when you can fill in
your My Business page and
put your hours of operation and
your phone number and your address,
like this is a great way to show up for
high intent users that are saying,
I already know I want to search for this
particular business, or this product, or
this app, now like show it to me, and
that you have a lot of control over how
you're presented, in search results.
And you have to be above a certain
threshold of relevance to get
these Knowledge Graph tiles,
but it doesn't hurt.
All of the approaches I'm taking today,
we'll see that I advocate for
like doing everything that you can and
that way in the future,
if you do cross some of
these these thresholds.
And we do see that social networks and
search engines evolve
in the way that they're indicating they're
evolving, like you will already have
the data all over your important content
to take advantage of tomorrow's features.
So, make sure that you are set to
receive reviews for your business.
The big places to look for reviews, for
sort of generic businesses are Google.
So these are the reviews that
are integrated with Google Maps,
you have star ratings.
Facebook is also a place where you'll
get a good star rating coming back.
Those will both show up in
search results as ratings.
So you'll see a star rating show
up right next to your business and
that is that is social proof, right?
That is you presenting to your
customers that you do a good job.
Often times people try to incentivize
like leaving a review and
you'll get a coupon and
something like that.
So you want to just motivate as many
people to leave positive feedback as
possible.
>> I'll just add that as we enable
the reviews on Facebook and
it was actually surprising how many
people reviewed it like right away cuz
Facebook actually sends them a message or
whatever pops it up like, hey,
what do you think of Frontend Masters,
like leave a review or whatever and
people have been saying some really
cool stuff, so it's a good thing to do.
I didn't even know that existed
until like two weeks ago,
>> You would have known today,
I would have told you.
>> Yeah.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And so
one thing that Frontend Masters
does that is effective
is you have these live events on Facebook.
And I believe at attendees of those live
events will be prompted after the fact
to review their experience
of attending that event.
So anytime that you can sort of loop
users in to having accountability
from the networks to sort of leave some
feedback, right, that's not your business
saying, please leave us a review but it's
Facebook saying like we saw you're here.
With one tap, give them a star rating.
Do you have anything else to say?
And building that kind of history and
that kind of social proof behind
your brand is really important.
So, local business
directories are a really easy
first step to building links
referring back to your site.
So if you have a chamber of commerce or
equivalent entity in your
area that is a really easy,
like highly trusted, highly influential
source that can refer back to your site.
They often keep a listing of all of
the members of their business so like,
if it's a couple hundred bucks to make
a donation to the Chamber of Commerce.
Like you will actually get proportionally
like more SEO value out of that,
then you're likely to get from
spending that same amount of money
on ads to try to show up to
customers again and again, right?
You start to look like a local authority.
And by the way,
mobile search indices oftentimes will bias
local results as well,
particularly if you're like a brick and
mortar business where you have
customers coming in like,
search engines identify that kind
of search and will favor like,
you're looking for Thai food and
here's a restaurant down the street.
So you wanna make sure that
whenever you move offices,
that you update your address
everywhere possible,
because what will happen is customers will
potentially find wrong information and
they'll flag it as incorrect and
that will suppress your SEO a little bit.
And at the very least,
it'll start to erode some of that
subtle trust you get from knowing like,
this is the address, these are the hours,
here's the phone number,
this is an established company.
If it's sort of like, we're not sure
where this place actually is, and
I see this one address over here and
this other one over here,
that is a less positive and
concrete face to put forward.
So if you have other
businesses that you work with,
like vendors, partners, so,
for example, I work with
a couple consultancies who don't offer
training services in and of themselves.
They refer back to my training site, so
that you can indicate that like,
these people like they trust my site and
they're referring to me as
their authority on training.
That's an easy one to get.
Just make sure that you are tasteful in
the way that you link back and forth.
You don't wanna be doing like link
trading, which we'll get into later as
sort of one of the negative, like black
hat things that search engines pick up on.
And then finally in the Google Search
Console, which is a free tool that pretty
much everyone should should put their URLs
through to see how they appear online.
There are ways you can indicate that
you are in fact a local business and
you're opting into showing up in
relevant local search results.
So, these are some great tips
if you have a physical location,
if you have walk-in customers, or
even vendors that visit you on sight,
definitely worth filling
this kind of thing out.
My business in particular, my training
business is sort of, its virtual so
I'm not at my address to receive
a customer if they come and visit me.
So this kind of thing would not
apply to that type of business.